Another problem you could run into is duplicate data.
You might think that duplicate data just means that
the same row shows up twice in a data set.
That definitely does happen.
In this case, you can look for duplicate rows and remove them.
Pandas makes this quite easy with the drop duplicates method.
However, duplicate data can sometimes be trickier to spot.
Let's say your company has a few different contact lists,
and wants to merge them together.
One contact list contains first name,
last name, phone number, and mailing address.
The contact list looks like this.
The second list contains first name,
last name, and email address.
Here is the second contact list.
One customer's name is Cristina Real.
In the first contact list,
her first name and last name appear as Cristina Real.
In the second list,
her first name and last name appears Christina Real,
with an H. If you merge the two lists together,
based off of first name and last name,
you could end up with two entries for Cristina, instead of one.
You've got a case of duplicate data.
Recognizing that Cristina and Christina with an H are the same person is not easy to do.
There are entire software programs and companies dedicated to
searching out and eliminating duplicate entries in these hard to find cases.
Much like with missing values,
each data set will have its own issues.
Part of your job as a data scientist or engineer is to comb through the data,
find the problem areas,
and write the code to fix these issues.